Hey there and welcome to Soul Church.
Our prayer is that this message encourages you wherever you may be in life.
We've been hearing so many stories about what God is doing in people's lives and we'd love to hear yours.
So take a second and send your story to stories at soulchurch.com.
Thanks again for joining us today and we hope that you enjoy the message.
God bless.
We honor the word and we honor the person who brings the word and you know today we've got an incredible
mighty woman of God.
Her name is Waisha.
She's amazing.
You know, I can tell already we love Waisha, but Waisha is studying for her doctorate and she's not just faithful on the platform.
She's faithful in every aspect of church life.
She's been a youth leader.
She's been everything in this church and she is an incredible, incredible woman of God.
And so I believe God is going to speak to you today as she brings the words.
So come on, why don't we give it up for Waisha as she comes on up.
during this morning, there's such an expectation and faith in the room, like worship was incredible.
Wasn't it incredible, guys?
Let's thank our worship team.
Thank you, worship team.
Oh, welcome everybody.
And welcome everybody watching online.
I'm so excited.
I'm going to just jump in with prayer.
So if you guys want to hold your hands out or you want to place your hand on your heart, we're just going to give this moment over to the Lord.
So Father God, I just thank you for this morning Lord.
We thank you for your presence.
Lord, I ask that over these next few minutes, you would speak to every single person in this room, Lord God, that you'd have something for every single one of us.
Lord, we are grateful for you.
And Lord, I just pray that your Holy Spirit would speak through me, that Lord, I would get out of the way, and you would come and have your way.
In Jesus' mighty name, amen.
Amen.
Feel free to take your seats.
Happy Valentine's weekend, everybody.
I hope you've had a lovely weekend.
Someone's been spoiled, they said.
How lovely.
I haven't yet.
Happy Valentine's Day to my future husband, if you're out there.
Amen?
Amen.
So I have been so excited to share this word with you guys.
This is something God has spoken to my heart.
And it's just such an incredible opportunity.
So thank you, John and Gentel.
He'll be watched online.
So just yet, encouraging us, championing us.
How have we gotten credible pastors, guys?
We do.
So this year, our word is on mission.
We've been speaking about what it means to be on mission as a people of God.
And our verse comes from Matthew 28, this is 18 to 19, and it says, then Jesus came to them and said, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.
We are on mission.
Has anyone ever felt stirred by God to do the right thing, but also slightly terrified of what obedience might cost?
Yeah, if we can be honest, thank you for the hands.
Everyone else, be more honest next time.
I'm not sure what everybody in this room was like during their childhood and teenage years, but I'm gonna let you into a bit of a snapshot of what the younger me was like in primary school and high school.
If you know me well in this room, none of what I'm about to say will come as a surprise to you,
And if you're getting to know me, this is gonna be new news.
So let's throw back.
From a young age, I had always had a real sense of justice and I'm right and wrong, something that I got from my amazing late dad.
To the point where I took it upon myself to become the defender and the protector of the people.
You know, if anyone I came into contact with, somewhat a bit of a justice seeker.
I felt a real mandate to ensure that truth always prevailed and justice was served.
I was often the person they called upon in the playground.
Would there be any conflict that called me in?
And I would comment what's going on, guys.
What's going on?
If you want to know what my face might have looked like before I was assessing the situation, I do think there's a picture coming up?
Yeah.
What's going on?
What needs to happen here?
That's how I was as a child and as a teenager.
I always wanted to know that justice was being served so much so is that, as you can probably imagine, I had a lot of teachers encourage me
to just stay out of it, just to mind my business.
But what I think they failed to realize was that I was on my own mission.
I was on a mission of my own.
My history teacher once said, you'd make a great barrister.
I just couldn't let it slide, no matter what it looked like.
It's like something in me just couldn't shake it, even when it would have been so much easier, so much more comfortable, and honestly less aggro if I just minded my business.
Stayed in my lane.
I wonder if you've ever felt that pull, where doing nothing felt easier, but doing the right thing felt necessary.
Why do I tell you any of this?
Because being on mission has a way of making comfort feel uncomfortable.
Anybody else been sensing that recently?
We're on mission, we're on mission, but the reality of that can feel quite uncomfortable.
What it means to be on mission is a people.
And I know in this room and online,
amongst our church family.
There are young people, there are young adults, parents, grandparents, people from all walks of life that you're sensing this call to be on mission, hearing the invitation in fact.
And yet if we are honest with ourselves, it would be so much easier just to keep gathering in here.
You know, being fired up in this building in here and not yet going on mission out there.
That way, we get to stay cozy and we don't come up against any opposition.
But church, can I encourage you this morning with a Bible passage that the Lord used recently to encourage me?
Is that okay?
We're going to get into the word together.
Everyone on board with that?
Amen, amen.
So the passage is in numbers 13 and 14.
I'm not going to read the entire passage of the two whole chapters, but what I will do is set the scene and I've got 12 volunteers.
If they'd like to jump up now, wearing my 12 men, let's give them a hand.
wonderful, wonderful.
So I'm going to highlight the key scriptures as we go through the passage and I'm encouraging you to take notes.
There we go, lovely.
Thanks guys.
So the story begins in Numbers chapter 13 and it's exploring Canaan.
Numbers 13 verses 1 to 3.
The Lord said to Moses, send some men to explore the land of Canaan.
which I am giving to the Israelites.
From each ancestral tribe, send one of its leaders so that at the Lord's command, Moses sent them out from the desert of parent.
All of them were leaders of the Israelites.
So the Lord is telling Moses to send these 12 men out, to scout out the Promised Land.
So right now on Moses, men go and scout.
Thank you, thank you.
They're off on their journey.
And what is important to understand at this point is that the Israelites had already been freed from slavery in Egypt.
God had rescued them from this slavery and was giving them the Promised Land.
Look at that wonderful scout announcement.
I love it.
In Numbers 13, verses 17 to 20, Moses gives them the instructions.
When Moses sent them to explore Canaan, he said, go up through the Negev.
and on into the hill country.
See what the land is like and whether the people who live there are strong or weak, few or many.
What kind of land do they live in?
Is it good or bad?
What kind of towns do they live in?
Are they unwalled or fortified?
Are there trees in it or not?
How is the soil?
Is it fertile or poor?
Do your best to bring back some of the fruit of the land, for it was the season for the first ripe grapes.
So these men have gone off exploring for 40 days of instruction from Moses.
They see that the land is abundant and fruitful.
The scriptures even tell us that it took two men to carry a cluster of grapes between them.
Now, I'm not sure about you guys, but I have never seen grapes that big in Tesco's.
Anyone else?
No, so we know that this is grapefruit, right?
And yeah, so the land was flown in with milk and honey, and yet when they arrive back,
after the mission, when they arrive back.
That's it, wonderful.
When they arrive back after the mission, we know, well done, let's welcome them back.
They've been off for 40 days, so they're probably quite tired.
But what we know is that 10 give a bad report, and two, see it from a different perspective.
Ten people saw with fear and only two saw it with faith.
So that's where we're picking up on the story.
Let's give the men a round of applause.
Thank you.
Lovely thanks Nathaniel.
Tim's gone off of my milk but it's fine.
I'll get it back.
Ten people lost the real mission before it even began and two chose not to shrink back.
Lovely, thank you.
Thanks, Aaron.
Fizz.
I'm gonna need this later, you see.
There we go.
So that is what we're gonna talk about today.
I believe there are four things we can learn from this text today about what it means to truly be on mission in a message I've titled, Don't Shrink Back.
Don't Shrink Back.
So if you're writing notes and I encourage you to, whether on your phone or in a notepad, that is the title, Don't Shrink Back.
Okay, he's ready for point number one.
Good, we're ready, we're ready to go.
Point number one, God's promises come with movement.
In number 13, one to three, it said, the Lord said to Moses, send some men to extore the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the Israelites.
From each ancestral tribe, send one of its leaders, so that the Lord's command
Moses sent them out from the desert of Puran.
All of them were leaders of the Israelites.
Now, there are two very important things I want you guys to notice about this first part of the scripture.
Number one, the mission.
God told Moses to send the 12 men.
It was active.
It was not passive, and this was not a polite suggestion from God.
It was a command.
He was sending them out.
And point number two, it had already been promised by God.
The land had already been promised by God.
This wasn't something that they were going to have to fight for or strive for.
God had already promised it to them.
That means this mission is God ordained.
This mission is God ordained.
Our mission, being on mission, is God ordained.
That means if God ordained it, nothing and nobody can stop it.
Amen.
Nothing and nobody.
That should be a comfort to us in this room today and online.
That we're sensing this call to be on mission in our context.
But actually, it's a God ordained mission.
He goes before us and he makes it happen.
The Lord told Moses to send.
They had to move.
You see, mission doesn't progress without participation.
Missions don't progress without participation.
Our key scripture says, therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you, and surely I am with you always to the very end of the age.
Notice what Jesus didn't say.
He didn't say, stay and be comfortable.
He said, go, and then I'll be with you.
And again, if we look over in Matthew, chapter nine, verses 35 to 38.
So then he said to the disciples, the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few.
Ask the Lord of the harvest therefore to send out workers into his harvest field.
You see, Soul Church, God's promise to us today is that the harvest is plentiful.
The people of Norwich are hungry for the Lord.
The nation of the UK is ready.
We keep hearing it, don't we?
The silent revival, that something is happening, the quiet revival.
You see, the people in our spheres of influence are waiting for you and I to move, to move.
But what else does the scripture say?
The workers are few.
Ask the Lord of the harvest to send the workers.
Send people, again, you and I, we have to move.
Remember what I said that is important about this scripture?
is that God had already led the Israelites out of slavery, out of the yoke of Egypt.
He was their rescuer and he continued to lead them.
So they knew that God was a man of his word.
They had nothing to worry about.
These men were on a surveying mission to gather intel from the land, to see what was happening, but it wasn't about if they would take the land, it would be when.
The mission that we're on Soul Church isn't about if we decide to go and shell the gothole, it's when.
we go and decide to share the gospel.
This was not a half-hearted nonchalant stroll.
This was an on-purpose mission that came directly from the Facilla, God.
You see, it's lovely, isn't it?
We come here on a Sunday together and we sing songs, don't we?
We sing, I see you taking ground.
I see you pressed ahead.
Your power is dangerous to the enemies.
Come on, what we sing?
You still do miracles.
You will do what you said for you're the same God now as you've always been.
Amen, right?
We sing, we love it, and yet we still stay still.
We still stay still.
So this is probably not news to anyone here, but we aren't dangerous to any enemy out there whilst we're stood still.
I don't know, when there's wars happening, people aren't afraid of enemies that don't move, that don't take grounds.
See, we heard Pastor John say it last week, didn't we?
Everyone is waiting to discover they are someone.
They are valued and that they can have eternal life through Christ Jesus.
Could it be that the power and the miracles we sing about come only through us by His Spirit?
when we move with the Spirit of God.
See, God partners with the body of Christ.
That is you and I, the church, to be His hands and feet on earth.
Say, hey, guess what?
Taking ground, pressing ahead is determined on whether you or I move or not.
It's dependent on us moving church.
So turn to the person next to you and say, don't shrink back.
Now turn to the other person and say, don't shrink back.
Amen.
Okay, he's ready for point number two.
Wonderful.
Point number two, fear disrupts the mission.
Fear disrupts the mission.
In numbers 13, verses 27 to 28, this is talking about the 10.
They gave Moses this account.
We went into the land which you sent us, and it does flow with milk and honey.
Here is it's fruit, but the people who live there are powerful, and the cities are fortified and very large.
We even saw descendants of Anik there.
So for some context, the descendants of Anik were giants.
So this is where Goliath that we hear about in the story of David Goliath, here's a descendant of Anik.
And I found this part of the scriptures so funny to me and maybe because it's so like us.
But this is kind of what the 10 did right.
Moses, you were right.
God was right.
We've seen the promised land and it's flowing with milk and with honey and the fruit.
The fruit is so good.
But.
They allowed what they saw to rob them of what God had said.
You see, fear doesn't deny the promised church, but it does question your place in it.
It does question your place in it.
You see, fear blinded them, those 10 men, from seeing the promise in full and stepping into the mission.
I wonder if we could be honest in this room and say we've been there, or perhaps we're there right now.
God, I know you said invite them to church, but what if they'll say no?
God, I know you've said to share my faith, but what if they reject me?
God, I know you've said the harvest is plentiful, but the world is such a mess right now.
Surely not.
God, I know you've said to pray until something happens, but it's just not working.
I wonder if like me at times, fear his sounded reasonable.
We've all been guilty of saying some of those things, haven't we?
And like those 10 spies, we've let ourselves become distorted by what's happening around us, the world, the news, the impossible family situation.
You only have to turn on the news, or even if you don't do that, someone else will bring it to you, won't they?
Of what's happening with this politician, that politician, what's going on in the world, what we're not doing well, but actually, God has already called us to be on mission.
You see, the Israelites' new God
They knew he was faithful.
He'd already led them out of slavery, deprivation and scarcity, and had promised them a land that was plentiful.
They were people that were able to go to the promised land and see how abundant it was and still not possess it.
They still didn't possess it.
In the midst of fear, they forgot whose they were, and they forgot who spoke the command.
Can I have an honesty moment with you guys?
Is that okay?
People I can trust in this room?
Amen.
So in my role as a training educational psychologist, part of what I might do is deliver training to school staff or different educational staff.
And there was a time where I was delivering some staff training.
And then there was a lot of negative reports coming out about kind of children and young people today, kind of what they're not, what they lack, what they aren't able to do.
And without realizing it, my perspective began to shift and I started to sound more like the 10th than the two.
Echoing a negative report.
You see, belief in God's power was still there.
The faith that God can move was still there.
It hadn't disappeared.
But fear had slowly began to shape my expectations.
And in his kindness, the Lord brought conviction in the same day.
Because how many of you know that bad reports don't just affect what we say.
They shape what we begin to believe as possible.
And perhaps that feels similar and familiar to some of us in this room or online.
when what we see and what we hear or what we face, quietly lowers our expectations of what God can do.
Maybe like me, you've looked at situations around you and spoken to feet while God had already declared victory.
And I wanted to read something from my journal for you guys.
And this is actually where this whole message from today came from of, I'd got home that evening after being involved in those conversations and the Holy Spirit just convicted me.
And this is what I wrote, bear with me.
Sorry, I've lost the page.
This is awkward, isn't it?
Sorry, I'm OK.
I want you to read it, so I want you to hear what God has spoke to me.
Apparently, I just write too much in my journal.
And that's okay because, you know, the Lord is always speaking.
He's a faithful God.
This is just a distraction from the enemy.
I'm not worried.
The page is going to come to me.
Do you know what I mean?
Okay.
Amen.
And if it doesn't, I'll just speak from my heart.
Okay.
It's not there.
So what I wrote about was that this generation warrants a negative report, right?
What we see in our physical reality
is perhaps not what we'd want to see.
We're so caught up in, you know, what they're not doing.
And actually, what the Lord reminded me of was that he has already told us what he's doing in this generation.
In Acts it says, he will pour out his spirit upon all flesh, that our sons and daughters will begin to prophesy, that old men will dream dreams.
And we've heard it, haven't we?
The word revival over and over again.
And it was a challenge of whether or not I really believed that.
And actually, what the 10 did actually caused the disruption in the mission.
that the Israelites were delayed for 40 years of wandering.
But then Joshua and Caleb led them into the promised land.
And in Joshua 1, 3, it says, wherever you place your foot is the land I have given you.
Wherever you place your foot is the land God has given you.
So don't worry about what the world reports, but let's be people who take ground with authority and do not shrink back.
Amen.
And sitting with that reminder,
I was reminded of the younger me who I mentioned earlier, the one who couldn't ignore justice, the one who stepped into situations others walked past, the one who believed righteousness and truth mattered, even when silence would have been much easier.
That fire had not disappeared.
It had been placed there by God.
And in that moment, something arose in my spirit to encourage us with today, not on our watch.
Not on our watch will this generation be written off.
Not on our watch will fear dictate what God can do.
Not on our watch will we agree with a bad report when God had already spoken a better word.
Church, let's not allow the noise of this well to distort the truth.
You are called, soul church, you are called, you are chosen, and you are the beloved of the most high God.
Therefore nothing and nobody can come against you on mission.
Everyone say nothing.
And now nobody can come against you on mission.
Romans 8, 31 says this, what then shall we say in response to these things?
If God is for us, who can be against us?
Amen.
And we know the answer to that scripture, right?
Who can be against us?
Nobody and nothing.
That's what the word of God says.
Don't shrink back.
Okay, he's ready for point number three.
Okay, good.
Point number three, faith shifts perspectives.
Same situation, different vision.
In numbers 13, 30 it says, then Caleb silenced the people before Moses and said, we should go up and take possession of the land, but we can certainly do it.
We can certainly do it so church,
And in Numbers 14, verses six to nine, it says, Joshua, son of nine and Caleb, son of Jeffinere, who were among those who had explored the land, tore their clothes and said to the entire Israelite assembly, the land be passed through and explored is exceedingly good.
If the Lord is pleased with us, he will lead us into that land, a land flowing with milk and honey and will give it to us.
Only do not rebel against the Lord and do not be afraid of the people of the land because we will devour them
Do not be afraid of the people of the land.
Do not be afraid of the enemy of Islam because the battle has already been won.
The battle has already been won.
And it goes on to say, their protection is gone, but the Lord is with us.
Do not be afraid of them, amen?
Caleb and Joshua were only two men amongst the majority, just two men.
They could have felt outnumbered, but they chose to speak up.
And in silence in these 10 men, they reinstated the mission.
Come on guys, we can do this.
It is possible.
They didn't deny the giants.
They just refused to magnify them.
So I'm not saying the giants in your life aren't real.
I have real giants too, believe me.
But it's not, but it's what we choose to magnify that matters most.
Being on mission doesn't mean we ignore the realities around us, but what it does do is uphold a word that is spoken in truth.
I wonder what giant has been speaking louder than God's mission in your life.
I wonder what giants need to silence in this room today.
And for those of you watching online, you see with the 10 in numbers 13 and 33, the 10 leaders said, we seemed like grasshoppers in our own eyes.
This is the place they'd got to.
They weren't small.
They were leaders.
They were leaders of the Israelites, the 12 tribes.
And yet, they diminished themselves.
They shrunk back and they were referring to themselves as grasshoppers.
We seemed like grasshoppers.
They shrank back.
And their fear didn't just remain personal.
It didn't stop there.
They spread that bad report amongst an entire nation of people.
And what began as fear turned into unbelief that disrupted the mission of an entire nation.
What began as someone's personal fear led to unbelief of an entire nation.
What are your words doing?
Are they declaring faith or proclaiming fear to those closest to you?
Oh, we're only one church.
I'm only new to this, I'm a new Christian.
I'm the only Christian in my family, the only Christian in my workplace, in my school.
But can I tell you something, Church?
Can I?
God has never been limited by numbers.
Only unbelief.
So maybe you are the only one.
And that's okay, because God can use one person
but actually when we have unbelief, it disrupts what God can do.
So church do not shrink back.
Let's be a people that when God speaks, we move.
When God speaks, we move.
When God speaks, amen, and things begin to shift and to happen in our lives for the glory of God.
Caleb and Joshua were just two men, but they knew who they belonged to.
They said the land was exceedingly good.
The Lord will lead us.
The Lord will give it to us.
He will be with us.
In the face of fear, they chose to speak faith.
I want to encourage some of you in this room today, you're spending too long on the bad report, not on my watch, not on our watch, enough's enough.
The bad report, okay, that might be the reality, but who do we serve?
Amen.
So you need to start confessing faith in the face of fear.
Being on mission isn't just a new slogan for the year or a wristband that we wear, so people can go, well, what's that?
No, that's not just what it means.
It's a God or deigned mission.
A God or deigned mission.
That means we don't have to be afraid of the giants.
We don't have to listen to the voices of fear.
We don't have to shrink back because the Lord of Heaven's armies goes before us.
I love how the psalmist puts it in Psalm 24, verse 18. Who is this king of glory?
The Lord strong and mighty.
The Lord mighty in battle.
That's the God we serve.
We sung about it this morning.
His fighting for us.
He's won every single battle.
Don't shrink back.
Don't shrink back, so church.
And finally, point number four.
Shrinking back has eternal consequences.
but so does obedience.
Shrinking back has eternal consequences, but so does obedience.
I want you to see something in Numbers 14, verses 22 to 23.
And it's one of those scriptures that you read and you're like, oh, that's not great.
But this is what God said about the 10.
Not one of those who saw my glory and the signs I performed in Egypt and in the wilderness, but who
It disobeyed me and tested me ten times.
Not one of them will ever see the land I promised on over to their ancestors.
Not one of them.
No one has treated me with contempt.
No one who has treated me with contempt will ever see it.
See, delay didn't cancel the promise or the mission, but it did change who entered into it.
It did change who entered into it.
Shrinking back costs to tend the promise.
And God can't fulfill a promise amongst the people who did not move with the mission.
But I don't want to dwell here because look at verse 24.
But because my servant Caleb has a different spirit and follows me wholeheartedly, I will bring him into the land he went to and his descendants will inherit it.
How beautiful is that?
You see, God doesn't say Caleb was louder or more confident or stronger
Or more gifted, hear me church.
Being on mission isn't about standing up here on a platform with a microphone.
Or being the most confident person in a room.
The scripture says Caleb had a different what?
A different spirit.
Caleb had a different spirit and he followed the Lord wholeheartedly.
And Caleb's faith wasn't just rewarded personally.
It created inheritance for generations after him.
Verse 24 again.
But because my servant Caleb has a different spirit and follows me wholeheartedly, see this, I will bring him into the land he went to, and his descendants will inherit it.
His obedience carved out a territory for his children, their children, and their children, who we see later in the book of Joshua, would inherit the very land those giants once lived on.
How incredible is that?
The same land that the voice of fear tried to warn him of,
The action of faith delivered him to you.
Church, could it just be that the missions we're afraid to embark on now will become the very victories we proclaim tomorrow?
The salvation we never thought was possible.
The shift in circumstances that neighbour or family member stood next to you in church a year from now,
Those names on the prayer cards in a wholehearted relationship with Jesus.
And what do we hear about Joshua?
Well, in Joshua chapter three, he goes on to lead the Israelites into that very promised land that we heard about in numbers in a miraculous way that made no sense.
So I think something about mission is it often requires our obedience before our understanding.
Sometimes we want to know what God's doing, and we're like, Lord, what's going on?
You know what's going on?
Tell me.
I actually think if God did show us, we wouldn't go.
The tender didn't.
And they saw, right?
They saw the land flowing with milk and honey, and they're like, we can't do this.
We can't do this.
See, it didn't make sense for Joshua to lead an entire nation across a flooded river.
It doesn't make sense for us to believe that an entire city can be saved by God.
that we can see revival again in this generation.
That you could be the very answer to your family, your neighborhood, your workplace, your school or your university.
I want to share another story about being on mission and not shrinking back or perhaps shrinking back in my case.
We'll see.
When I was 18, I went to Bible College for two years and we used to do this thing every Tuesday where we would literally be on mission.
Now, what that would look like is we'd go out into the city and we'd meet people on the streets and talk to them about Jesus.
We might pray for them.
We might just come alongside them.
And I actually really didn't enjoy this.
I found it really uncomfortable.
And in my head, it was just like that thing of, you know, when you go up, someone's like, hey, can I tell you about Jesus?
It's like, it's just a really weird and uncomfortable thing.
But, you know, I thought, okay, God, this is your idea.
This is not my idea.
So I wanna work with you in this.
And one morning, as I was praying, I just said, God, I'm gonna need some names.
You know everyone by name, so give me them too.
So I'm not just approaching strangers.
And I sense the Holy Spirit say to me, you're gonna meet someone, his name begins with Jay.
I thought, well, that's helpful.
The name begins with Jay, okay, thank you Lord.
And then I felt like he gave me the name Jake.
And I was like, okay.
I can work with that.
That's someone's name.
And off I went out on mission.
And the first person I approached, they asked me if I had a cigarette.
I said, no, but what I do have.
I said, oh, can I just talk to you about Jesus?
And he turned out to his name again with a J.
And then the following person, their name began with a J.
And the following person.
So I thought, it's a hat trick.
It was good, right?
And then I still haven't met Jake, and I'd written it down in the morning, because I wanted to know that if I'd met Jake, I could show him eight o'clock this morning, I was praying for you.
And as we were leaving the city, I was walking, and I just caught eyes of someone, and I was like, that's Jake.
So I ran after him in the city center.
I just ran, and I was like, sorry.
That's gonna sound really weird, but it's your name, Jake.
And he was like, yeah?
And I was like, this is my moment.
I was like, the Lord is real, it's real!
Come on!
But inside, I was like,
I said, this is going to sound really weird, but I'm a Christian and I really believe that God wanted me to meet you today.
He began to weep and I was like, what's going on?
And he said that he was questioning life and whether he still wanted to be here.
And he said, God, if you're real, I need you to reveal yourself to me today.
And at that moment, yeah, please come.
At that moment, I was able to pray with him there and then we were both crying at that point.
And I was just like, well, God, you're so intentional.
You know, sometimes we can think being on mission is a scary thing, but it's not our idea.
It's his idea.
Joshua and Caleb's obedience saved an entire people group.
Our mission isn't just about now.
It's about legacy.
Your yes and my yes to the mission matters more than our comfort, more than our personal success or our moment.
It's for our children, our community and the generations to come.
We don't obey the mission just to enter into his promises.
We obey them so that others can inherit them.
Don't shrink back.
Who knows what Jake had planned to do that day before that encounter?
You see, history changes when someone refuses to shrink back.
History changes when someone refuses to shrink back.
And as I was praying for you guys in this room,
And I just really felt like the Holy Spirit wanted me to pray over some groups of people.
So we're just going to step into that time of ministry and prayer and just see what the Holy Spirit does.
And I just love you guys as to be still and just receive.
And the Bible says Joshua was young when he was called.
So if you're 30 and under in this room right now, could you please stand?
30 years old and younger.
Please stand.
Thank you.
Guys, let's not use this moment for a chatter.
This is a holy moment.
Let's keep pressing into that.
Thank you.
Young people, young adults, this generation needs your courage.
This generation needs your yes.
Don't believe the lie that you're too young, that you have nothing to bring.
We're talking about this quiet revival that's getting louder and louder and it's Gen Z that are leading the way.
Gen Z men actually, thank God for that.
Yeah, thank God for that.
And I just want to pray over you guys and just reinstate that mission of fresh.
So if you'd just like to hold out your hands in this room, close your eyes.
And if you're sat in this moment and you've got young people, young adults around you, I'd love you just to stretch your hands out towards them.
as I pray.
So Lord Jesus, I just thank you right now for these young people and these young adults.
So I thank you that you have called them, that you know them by name and that you love them.
Right now Lord, I pray against the spirit of timidity and I pray that it is broken in the name of Jesus.
I pray boldness and courage over these young people and young adults.
Lord, would you raise them up to be a light in the darkness?
to be wisdom amongst the foolishness of this world, to be the head and not the tail, confident carriers of your message, love and hope.
Lord, right now, I just pray against every lie that has been spoken over them, and I render it broken in the name of Jesus.
that you have called them, that you are going to use them, Father God, that you have appointed them for such a time as this.
And Lord, I pray over renewed minds, Father God, I speak against depression, I speak against anxiety, Lord God, and I thank you that you are releasing freedom right now in the name of Jesus.
Father, I thank you that these young people and young adults will change this world for you, Father God.
Joshua and Caleb were only two.
And I thank you, Lord God, that you are calling and appointing these young people in the mighty name of Jesus.
Amen.
Thank you, Lord.
Thank you, Jesus.
Amen.
The next group of people I want to pray for above 30 is the men.
So if you're a man in this room, please stand and stand quickly.
If you're a man in this room, thank you, Jesus.
Thank you, Jesus.
Thank you, Lord.
Men of God.
Men of God, your families need your faith.
Your children need your example.
Your sisters in Christ need you to rise of strength and humility.
You see, we live in a world that says, oh, we don't need the men anymore.
It is a lie.
We need you.
We need you to have strength to walk in the authority that God has given you.
To rise up in your families, in your home situations,
Do not allow the enemy to win.
Do not allow the enemy to so discord in your relationships and your marriages, but stand firmly in the God-given place that he has placed you in as head over your households.
So men hold out your hands.
Thank you Jesus, those sitting around, you're going to pray over the wonderful men of God right now.
Father God, I thank you right now for these men in this room Lord God.
I thank you that you have raised them up to be leaders of their households.
Father God, I thank you that you have given them the strength and the humility and the boldness.
Father, I thank you
that you are going to use them in mighty ways far more than they could ever ask, dream, or imagine.
And Father, any lie that they have believed, Father, I break it off them right now in the name of Jesus, that they are the head and not the tail, the lender, not the borrower.
that they are the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus.
And I thank you that as they walk in that authority, Lord God, things would begin to happen.
Things would begin to shift.
Father God, I pray for wisdom and discernment in their workplace, in their families as they raise children.
Father God, would we see a move of these mighty men of God that would change the nation forever in Jesus' mighty name, Amen.
Amen.
Thank you.
And now the ladies, women of God stand up for me.
Women of God, you were never meant to shrink back.
You were never meant to shrink back.
You were never meant to hide behind a man.
You were never meant to hide behind your appearance, but you were called.
We need your guests as a church.
Your homes need your faith.
Your children need your prayers, and this well needs your fight with them in fire.
See women of God, we are called to be lionesses.
We are called to be lionesses, and the enemy knows that if he can wipe out the women, he can wipe out the men, because women have a unique gift upon them to speak and encourage them to raise up, to build children's lives, to build homes alongside who God has joined them with, but so many times the women are retreating, because either you feel like you're not enough, or you're too much.
But I've come to remind you today that you are exactly who God has called you to be.
You are exactly who God has called you to be.
So women of God, let's hold your hands out.
And everyone who's still seeing, please reach out.
Father God, I thank you right now for these mighty, precious
wonderful, fierce women of God, Lord.
I thank you that you have placed things in them that nobody can wrong, that nobody can stop.
And right now, Father, God, I speak a boldness and an authority like never before, that Lord, as these women depart from this place, but they walk with their heads, held high, and their feet firmly on the ground that you have placed them in.
Father, I thank you that these women are wise.
They bring a fire and a wisdom Father God, and I just pray that any life they have believed is broken off right now in the name of Jesus.
In the name of Jesus, I thank you for fresh anointing, fresh authority, and fresh courage in the mighty name of Jesus.
Amen.
Thank you Lord.
And as we stay in this moment, I just invite everyone to stand or remain standing.
as I come to a close.
There's a final group of people I'd love to pray with.
You know, every one of these calls, these missions flows from one thing.
Relationship with Jesus.
The man who left his father's side in heaven on his very own mission to earth to die for you and for me.
So that we could have forgiveness.
Relationship with God, healing,
and peace.
And maybe you're here today and you've felt something stirring inside of you but you don't get no him or perhaps you've known him before but if you're honest with yourself you've been away from him and that's okay because you're going to have the opportunity right now to reconnect.
The greatest mission starts with a single yes.
Jesus' yes was on that cross and your yes could be today.
So if that's you and you want to say yes to Jesus today I'd love to pray for you.
And what I'm gonna do to make it very simple is I'm gonna count to three.
And after three, if you're saying, I wanna say yes to Jesus.
Hey, you don't need to understand everything right now and that's okay.
But you know in your heart, you want relationship with Jesus.
I love you to lift up your hand and then we're gonna say a prayer together as a church family.
So one, two, three.
Just lift up your hand.
Thank you.
Thank you Jesus.
Let's just say this prayer together.
Just repeat after me.
Dear Lord Jesus, thank you for dying for me to forgive all my sins and failures.
I believe that He rose from the dead so that I can have a brand new life.
Please come into my heart and help me by the power of the Holy Spirit to trust and to live for you.
Amen.
Thanks again for tuning in.
If you said yes to Jesus today by saying the salvation prayer, we'd love for you to email connections at soulchurch.com so we can talk to you a little bit more about this incredible decision you've just made.
And if at any point in the service, you felt moved to give towards any of our local or global initiatives, head to SoulChurch.com.
And don't forget to stay connected with us on Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube by searching at SoulChurchUK.
Take care and God bless.